We're at the last part here where
we're gonna deploy this to WebGL.
And like I said, this is hopefully going
to be perhaps the easiest part of this.
This is a script that is already
in the project we don't need
to write this because frankly this is kind
of beyond the scope of a beginner lesson.
But it was something that was
necessary because of MacOS Monterrey,
I had to add this to make it build on Mac.
If you're on Windows it should be fine and
even if the script is in the project
it shouldn't affect Windows builds.
But I will explain it,
because it is there.
So, in unity, you can add scripts
that pre process your build.
So as you're building something, or
creating a build and outputting it,
you can process that build in
a number of different ways.
And this actually uses
the Unity editor name-space
rather than the Unity engine name space.
And anytime we're using
the Unity editor name-space
we need to wrap that in some
pre processing directives.
Or a compilation directive I should say so
that that doesn't
get included in our builds otherwise
unity is gonna throw an error.
And this only needs to happen on os 10 so
that's why it says Unity Editor OS 10,
so if this is OS10.
Then we need to do this
pre processing step.
So what is the step?
Well, it turns out in macOS monterey and
possibly later if you're
watching this in the future,
you'll need to add this build
preprocessor because it points
to the location of python three.
In macOS Monterey,
they didn't include python 2, and
that's what unity is looking for.
And we need Python in
order to do a WebGL build.
Right now I am not set
to create a WebGL build.
So I'm going to go to file,
build settings and,
I need to switch my platform,
over to WebGL.
So I'm gonna choose, switch platform, and,
that just needs to convert all
of the raw assets that we have,
into a format that webgl
is going to understand.
So any time you switch platforms.
There is going to be a little bit
of a step here where everything has
to transfer over, and
that should be finished momentarily.
Okay, and it's going to continue
doing the script compilation.
We might get a few materials here
that are still processing, okay?
Cool, let's hit play here to
see what that looks like.
Make sure these came in okay.
Yep, l did, just the previews
that look kind of funky there?
So now if I hit build and run.
I'm going to put this in my builds folder.
And I'll say unity for
a web developers WebGL,
and I'll create a new folder there.
And well, actually I don't wanna do that.
That's what I wanted to name the project.
So I have a build folder,
I'll say unity for
web developers, WebGL.
And that's what it will save it as.
And this build step could
take anywhere between 30
seconds to several minutes or
maybe even longer.
It depends on the size of your project.
It depends on the speed of your computer,
and
depends on all manner of different
settings that you might have set in unity.
And it also depends on how recently you
compile the project because a lot
of things do get cached, and
that can help shader compilation
happen a little bit faster.
So we're just waiting for this to finish.
>> So with you in particular about
unity that are not unity but
WebGL that causes the compilation
time to take a little bit longer.
>> I don't know and
that's kind of the beauty of unity
is all that is abstracted away.
I'm sure there's a reason, but I couldn't
explain the entire software stack.
[LAUGH] I assume it's probably doing
some kind of intermediary
language stuff there.
Unity has a system called
ILSSTTP which allows it to
basically compile a lot of stuff to C++,
in this case,
it's not doing that because
we're going to WebGL.
But on other platforms, especially,
say console that allows you to
run unity code much faster than you
could with just C sharp scripts.
And now if we switch
over to the web browser,
I can see that it opened
a port on our local hosts.
And so this is just running with Python
without us having to set up a server or
anything like that.
So it's doing it all on its own, and
press Start to start playing Browser.
And now, yeah, you can see the game
running in a web browser and
you can even hit it to go full screen.
The UI is a little bit small here.
I think that's because of the resolution
that this is being captured at.
Just perhaps some of Apple's magical
retina technology taking over there and
giving us a really weird screen
resolution that unity is picking up on.
But other than that,
everything looks pretty good here.
All the materials are responding to
the lighting in the way I'd expect.
If the player or the opponent falls
off the side we're getting reset So
we're able to grab the collectibles.
The timer is ticking down,
the scores are being calculated.
And once we get to the end here,
we should see the end game screen.
I definitely lost.
You lose and
you can press space to restart the game.